Who We Are: A Transgender Primer

“Transgender is a term used to describe people whose gender identity differs from the sex they were assigned at birth. Gender identity is a person's internal, personal sense of being a man or a woman (or boy or girl.) For some people, their gender identity does not fit neatly into those two choices. For transgender people, the sex they were assigned at birth and their own internal gender identity do not match.
People in the transgender community may describe themselves using one (or more) of a wide variety of terms, including (but not limited to) transgender, transsexual, and non-binary. Always use the term used by the person.
Trying to change a person's gender identity is no more successful than trying to change a person's sexual orientation -- it doesn't work. So most transgender people seek to bring their bodies into alignment with their gender identity. This is called transition. 
As part of the transition process, many transgender people are prescribed hormones by their doctors to change their bodies. Some undergo surgeries as well. But not all transgender people can or will take those steps, and it's important to know that being transgender is not dependent upon medical procedures.
Sexual orientation describes a person's enduring physical, romantic, and/or emotional attraction to another person (for example: straight, gay, lesbian, bisexual), while gender identity describes a person's, internal, personal sense of being a man or a woman, or someone outside of the gender binary.
Simply put: sexual orientation is about who you are attracted to and fall in love with; gender identity is about who you are.
Like everyone else, transgender people have a sexual orientation. Transgender people may be straight, lesbian, gay, bisexual, or queer. For example, a person who transitions from male to female and is attracted solely to men would typically identify as a straight woman. A person who transitions from female to male and is attracted solely to men would typically identify as a gay man.”
GLAAD (Gay & Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation)

#Definitions

I wanted to talk about definitions for a moment. Some of the terms I use, and some of the terms that you’ll hear more and more if you look into transgender rights and gender diversity might not be terms whose meaning you’ve examined on a deeper level, or in this context — it’s useful to question and relearn some of them!
Affirmed gender: is the gender that an individual has identified with that is different to their ascribed gender group at birth.
Sex: refers to standard biological descriptors
Transitioning: refers to the process where a transgender person commences living permanently as a member of another gender group.
Transgender (Trans): refers to a person whose gender identity is different from that ascribed to them in the past, typically at birth, including non-binary people who live or identify without an ascribed gender.
